then the Lord answered job out of the
whirlwind who is this with darkens
counsel by words without knowledge now
prepare yourself like a man I will
question you and you shall answer me
where were you when I laid the
foundations of the earth tell me if you
have understanding who determined its
measurements surely you know or who
stretched the line upon it - what were
its foundations fastened or who laid its
cornerstone when the morning stars sang
together and all the sons of God shouted
for joy
or who shut in the sea with doors when
it burst forth and issued from the wound
when I made the clouds its garland and
thick darkness its swaddling band when I
fixed my limit for it and said bars and
doors when I said this far you may come
but no father and hear your proud waves
versus cotton have you commanded the
morning since your days began and caused
the dawn to know its place that it might
take hold of the ends of the earth and
the wicked be shaken out of it it takes
on form like clay under a seal and
stands out like a garland from the
wicked their light is withheld and the
upraised arm is broken have you entered
the springs of the sea or have you
walked in search of the dirts have the
gates of death been revealed to
or have you seen the doors of the shadow
of death have you comprehended the
breadth of the earth tell me if you know
all this
where is the way to the dwelling of
light and darkness where is its place
but you may take it to its territory
that you may know the paths to its home
do you know it because you were born
then or because the number of your days
is great have you entered the treasury
of snow or have you seen the Treasury of
hail which I have reserved for the time
of trouble for the day of battle and war
by what way is light diffused or the
east wind scattered over the earth who
has divided a channel for the
overflowing water or a path for the
Thunderbolt to cause it to rain on a
land where there is known a wilderness
in which there is no man to satisfy the
desolate wastes and cause to spring
forth the growth of tender grass has the
rain of father or who has begotten the
drops of dew from whose womb comes the
ice and the frost of heaven who gives it
birth
the water's hardened like stone and the
surface of the deep is frozen can you
bind the cluster of the Pleiades or
loose the belt of Orion can you bring
out Nazareth in its season or can you
guide the Great Bear with its curves do
you know the ordinances of the heavens
can you set their dominion over the
earth can you lift up your voice to the
crowds that an abundance of water may
coming
can you send out lightnings but they may
go and say to you here we are
who has put wisdom in or who has given
understanding to the heart who can
number the clouds by wisdom or who can
pour out the bodies of heaven when the
dust hardens in clumps and the clods
cling together can you hunt the prey for
the lion or satisfy the appetite of the
young lions when they crouch in their
dens or lurk in their lairs to lie in
wait who provides food for the Raven
when it's young ones cry to God and
wander about for lack of food
you